# Nature-Inspired-Robust-Optimal-Gait-Generation-Of-a-Multiple-DOF-Robotic-Platfform

Nature-inspired legged locomotive robots enable adaption of design principles of animals and endow robots with similar flexibility and robustness. They present superior mobility in natural terrain as they have the capability to vary their leg configurations in order to adapt to surface irregularities. A six-legged locomotive robot inspired by the physical design and the behaviors of spiders was utilized as a robotic platform in this research. 

Six-legged robots have the potential of providing a greater dynamic and static stability while traversing and standing. As spider inspired robots are used in many applications where it has to traverse through uneven terrain types it is crucial for them to generate gaits that ensure the stability and easiness of traversing by adapting to any type of terrains. This research was presented as a novel approach to generate optimal gaits according to the terrain type in which the spider robot would traverse. 

This approach gives direct insight into how robot is changing its gaits with the given terrain. To generate stable gaits in different types of uneven terrains an optimization technique based on natural selection concepts and evolutionary theories named; Genetic Algorithm (GA) was used.

An eighteen Degrees of freedom(DOF) six-legged spider robotic platform was designed considering the static and dynamic stability, symmetry and weight parameters. The robot structure was designed and implemented using a computer-aided software named “SOLIDWORKS”. Then the modeled robotic platform was tested using a  physics-based simulator named “WEBOTS”.A genetic algorithm was developed to generate optimal gaits for the robotic platform for a given terrain. The developed algorithm was tested using  the “WEBOTS” simulator  by creating uneven terrain types using Perlin Noise Algorithm and Elevation grids. The verified gaits were successfully implemented to a 3D printed spider robot. The Simulation results and the results obtained by implementing the optimal gait generated by the genetic algorithm  to a  3D printed spider robot have proven that the evolved gait enables a six-legged robot to move effectively for a given terrain. 
